>> Estelle Weyl: So
let's go onto the attribute
selectors.
>> Estelle Weyl: Originally we had just
the attribute selector,
which is does this attribute exist?
So every HTML element can
have a series of attributes.
Some of them are valid,
some of them are invalid.
Doesn't matter if they're valid or
invalid, CSS will still match them.
But it's better to use valid attributes.
Like you really don't need
a type attribute on a paragraph,
cuz it doesn't make any sense.
But you could put a type attribute
on a paragraph and target it.
So you can use these.
Here I have [alt].
Which says, does the alt attribute exist?
The alt attribute is basically
an attribute of the image element,
and I think of the area for,
anyone remember image maps?
Anyone used an image map
in the last ten years?
In the last ten years?
>> Speaker 2: The last ten years?
>> Estelle Weyl: Yeah.
Yeah, okay, we have one person-
>> Speaker 2: And
it's probably been nine years ago.
>> Estelle Weyl: Okay.
[LAUGH] So the alt attribute, this would
be a good way of actually doing testing.
Which element do you have,
which element has an alt attribute?
Because you always want to include and
alt attribute with all of your images.
No matter what your image has,
if you have the image element,
put an alt attribute in it.
It is not accessible if you don't.
And that means if it's just pretty and
doesn't have any content
put an empty element.
It doesn't matter but
always include the alt attribute.
So you could say,
>> Estelle Weyl: Image alt display none,
and then all the images that you have that
don't have the attributes would still show
and then you would know which ones are
inaccessible and you could update them,
or you could do something
like img:not:([alt]).
And say which images don't have alt
attributes and target that way,
we'll cover not in a bit.
And then you could say which elements
that are descended with a form,
have a type attribute and
target it that way.
So, it would match input type date but
it would not match a select because even
though select is a descendant of a form,
the type attribute makes
no sense on the select.
So CSS 2 gave us a few
attribute selectors.
This came on the one we just saw
on the first page, came in CSS 2.
And it gave us a few others.
Not only could we use attribute to say is
the attribute present, it doesn't matter
what the value is, but we could also
target if it's the exact value.
Case-sensitive, if the value
itself is case-sensitive.
So type equals date.
That's HTML, that is not case-sensitive.
But, if you put class.
Like a string that you would generate
anytime you generate a string and
you created it yourself,
it is case sensitive.
So it would be a case sensitive
string that is an exact match.
And then we've got also the | =,
which matches anything that
starts with whatever that value is, with
or without a dash that comes after it.
So why would you need something like that?
Languages, so EN-US or EN-UK,
you could just say LANG pipe equals EN and
then you would match any English no
matter what country it was from.
And here is the example right there.
>> Estelle Weyl: And
then we have attribute selectors
that we received in level 3.
You can put the carat
before the equals sign,
right here, and
say any attribute, right here,
who's value starts with that value.
So you could find an external link,
which with http and
that would match https and http://,
or you could target,
in this example I've done a mail two link.
This isn't quite right, cuz you could
actually have a folder called http.
But, if you really wanted to do it exact,
so, these two examples,
I actually put here for a reason.
These are two good examples to use.
If you are printing a style sheet,
like if you're in your print style sheet.
If someone is printing your page,
they can't see where the link goes, right?
So if it's a mail-to link,
you can actually,
it says email me, like George@ or
if it's an, H, like an external link.
In this example it says after
any link that starts with H ref,
that's H ref rather starts with http,
as the content,
put an opening parenthesis, the attribute
H ref and then closing parenthesis.
And so when you printed a link,
but it would print out,
like if you printed a page and
it had links in it,
it would actually add the URL,
but only for external links.
Because internal links, do you
really want to show your navigation?
No, but if you're saying like, this is a
really good restaurant, here is their URL
and you just say a Chinese restaurant,
and it's around Chinese restaurant.
Well, I don't know what
Chinese restaurant that is.
When you print it,
it doesn't help you, but here,
that's one way to print that URL.
The one above it is not actually for
print, it's for
providing progressive enhancement.
So basically, you have a mail to link and
if you have a wider screen you could put
the full email address plus the icon, if
you have a narrower screen you could just
put the icon.
>> Estelle Weyl: You could
add a background image and
some padding to it, or whatever.
Then there's the ending, so dollar sign
says it's an attribute selector that says
any element that has this attribute with a
value that ends in whatever that value is.
So in these examples, I use PDF.
There is nothing I hate more than opening
a link and not knowing that it is going to
open an application or
it's gonna download something.
So this something that improves usability.
When you say find every single
link that ends with PDF, and
either put an icon of
the PDF icon on that link,
or put the content
parenthesis PDF afterwards.
It improves usabilty and also if you're
doing like a content management system and
you have no control over who is
putting content onto your website.
You can just say whenever somebody puts
a mail to link I'm gonna put a little
email icon.
Whenever someone puts a PDF,
I don't even have to teach them that
this is what they're supposed to do.
That they're supposed to indicate and
to use best usability,
and progressively enhance stuff,
I'm just gonna do it for them.
And then we have E[attr*=val] and
what that does is it's with,
that string val is anywhere
within the content.
>> Estelle Weyl: So
earlier I was talking
about case sensitivity.
In HTML five, attribute values
are not case sensitive and
attributes themselves
are not case sensitive.
But there are some that
are case sensitive.
I did mention that whenever you
have a string that you create it's
case sensitive.
In CSS Selector level 4, we actually get
this little i that we can do a space i and
it basically says,
this value but case insensitive.
So if you were using XML and
you had check box that was lowercase
that would be the correct way to do it.
Because it's XML it's
suppose to be all lowercase.
So I did a CodePen Test.
I think I did an interesting example here.
Let's just see.
This was to test for
case insensitivity and if it still worked.
So I have, if red it's not supported,
if light's green, it's supported.
So when I wrote this deck,
when I started writing it,
it wasn't supported in all browsers.
And so what would be case sensitive
versus not case sensitive.
I have a div with an ID of foo,
right, lowercase foo.
I can say, match with id of FOO uppercase.
Is this big enough?
Let's make this bigger, right?
And says background color blue.
But it's not blue.
If I add an I right there it turned blue.
So that means it's
supported in this browser.
With type text, right is in,
it's not case-sensitive,
cuz it's an HTML attribute value, versus
this, which is a string that I created.
And so the <input type ="text"/>,
which is the second thing here,
>> Estelle Weyl: It's blue,
because it inherited from this,
and overwrote that.
Oops, it overwrote this.
Because here, it says input[type="TEXT"
i], case insensitive.
And then with the exact same specificity,
both of these have,
this has a specificity,
>> Estelle Weyl: Of 1 for the element,
and the attribute selector is considered
to have the same specificity as a class.
So it's zero, one, one.
And this has zero, one, one as well.
The i has no weight so even though
this one is actually more specific than
that one cuz that's case insensitive.
So because this is not case sensitive,
cuz it's an HTML attribute,
then that's why this was blue.
But this was case sensitive,
so it's green.